so this paper came out um about a month
ago
so half of adults with adhd have had a
substance use disorder alcohol use
disorder is the most common among adults
age 20 to 39 with adhd followed by
cannabis use disorder and other drug
disorders more than one quarter of those
with adhd had major major depression
so what i want to share with you all
today is um
something that i think is really
important which is understanding why
people with adhd are actually prone
to substance use disorders
so in order to kind of explore that with
y'all today here's what we're going to
do
we're going to explain first of all what
adhd is a disease of we're going to talk
a little bit about like you know what is
really wrong in adhd what is wrong in
substance use disorders we're going to
sort of explore the overlap between
those two things and kind of the
neuroscientific vulnerabilities of both
of these disorders
and once we understand the
neuroscientific vulnerabilities and
processes we'll start to develop an
understanding of like how we can fix it
right
and so this is going to be really tricky
because i'm going to try to send you all
some pretty complicated neuroscience
that first of all i don't fully
understand because it's so incredibly
complicated
but secondly it's going to be very
simplified
um and then
you know really ask you all to sort of
apply that understanding to like what
you can do if you have adhd and a
substance use disorder
so to begin with
let's start talking a little bit about
you know what is adhd
so
if i had to summarize i'd say that adhd
is first and foremost a disease of
executive dysfunction and so what does
executive dysfunction mean executive
dysfunction is
so our executive function is our brain's
capacity to plan and execute tasks
so for example if i want to like study
for a test there are many things that go
into studying for a test and one of the
key things that i have to do when
studying for a test first of all is
behavioral inhibition so i sit down to
study uh for a test
and
in order to study for the test i have to
stop myself from like doing other things
like pulling out my phone
you know logging on to reddit like
watching twitch playing video games
like
going to get a snack so there's a part
of my brain that when i focus it in one
direction like prevents me from doing
all the others
all those other things
i may have um
you know impulses to do those things but
essentially my brain is like no we're
not going to do that now like we'll
check the phone later
so the first thing that happens in
people with adhd is that they're they
have deficiencies in their behavioral
inhibition circuitry that kind of comes
from the frontal lobe okay we'll talk
about that in a second the second thing
is that people with adhd have altered
sensitivity to reinforcement
and so what that means is that things
that are low hanging fruit and easily
enjoyable
are
far much more enjoyable to people with
adhd so if you look at like delayed
gratification studies and people with
adhd where you ask someone with adhd hey
i'll give you a dollar now or i'll give
you five dollars in five minutes which
one do you want literally the brain of
someone in adhd is gonna pick the dollar
now as opposed to the dollar and five
five dollars in five minutes
so compared to the neurotypical brain
the sensitivity to reward and
reinforcement is altered in adhd
the third thing that that happens in
adhd is a high amount of impulsivity so
people may say like is
decreased inhibition the same as
impulsivity and it turns out that
neuroscientifically they're actually
like discrete mechanisms so people with
adhd tend to be like a lot more
impulsive so when they have like an
impulse they're much more likely to act
on it that may correlate with decreased
inhibition may also correlate with
reward sensitivity right so if i have an
impulse to like eat chocolate and i
enjoy chocolate more than the
neurotypical person it'll be hard for me
to diet in a healthy way okay so when we
kind of summarize i kind of think about
executive dysfunction and adhd as having
three major components the first is
deficient behavioral inhibition so it's
hard for me to inhibit behaviors
the second is an altered sensitivity to
reinforcement so things that are fun for
other people are actually like way more
fun for me if i have an adhd brain
and we'll get to the neuroscience of
this because it involves dopamine
reinforcement circuitries and things
like that and the third is a as a
certain amount of inhibit i mean
impulsivity which is and that
impulsivity has a lot to do with
intolerance to delayed gratification
okay
so these are the three things that we're
going to kind of talk about when it
comes to what adhd is
so the next thing that we're going to
kind of touch on is that
um
so substance use is actually like
very
the adhd brain is very vulnerable to
substance use because of these three
things so if we think about like
substance use you know it involves
restraining our ability to like get high
for example
it could be hard enough on its own right
but when i've got an adhd brain that has
like
a deficiency in behavioral inhibition
has an altered sensation of reward and
has like more impulsive kind of
behaviors it makes it really easy for me
to use substances so i think if we kind
of look at what gets people to use
substances and what protects people from
using substances
the way that our brains protect us from
using substances are kind of handicapped
in the adhd brain
so it makes us much more prone to using
substances
so this is where if we kind of look at
the kind the mechanisms of um
[Music]
adhd and
if we look at kind of the mechanisms of
adhd it'll what we'll kind of see is
we'll map these mechanisms onto a few
different parts of our brain okay
so what we're going to now do is take a
quick look at
the brain
and so let's take let's understand the
neuroscience of this okay
so we have a couple of different parts
of our brain
so the first is going to be the
prefrontal cortex
so the prefrontal cortex is responsible
for inhibition
so
there's also another part of our brain
called the anterior cingulate cortex
which is kind of back here in the
anterior cingulate cortex
or
results in poor selective attention
and poor inhibitory control
so the frontal lobes are responsible for
inhibition but the anterior cingulate
cortexes as well and what we know in
people with adhd is that they've got
like basically like a reduced activity
in the anterior cingulate cortex okay
and the third thing that we're going to
kind of talk about and this is important
for drug use
is
impair dopamine activity across the
brain
so
this may sound kind of weird
but you guys know that like with adhd we
actually give people stimulant
medication right so this is going to
sound kind of weird
but if you look at the per the brain of
someone with adhd what essentially
happens is that like
they're getting too many thoughts too
fast and if you look at that what that
really is
is not it's not that their brain is
actually moving too quickly it's that
their brain is not able to turn down the
volume of some thoughts
so when you give someone with adhd
stimulant medication what you're
actually stimulating
is the pfc
so stimulant medication
increases the activity of stimul of the
pfc and allows you to actually focus on
one thing so it doesn't actually speed
up the brain it actually boosts your pfc
function which in turn will allow you to
negatively inhibit like other thoughts
and impulses does that make sense
um
okay
so the next thing to understand is that
people with adhd have impaired dopamine
activity
and so part of the problem is that we we
know that in the pfc in the anterior
cingulate cortex and we'll get to the
striatum in a second
we know that we have low dopamine or
some kind of dopamine dysfunction in the
brain of adhd
and so if you kind of look at it like
what
drug use will actually do is increase
your dopamine levels so one of the
reasons that people with adhd will use
substances is to almost self-medicate so
they have a baseline low dopamine
activity which results in adhd symptoms
and when i add drugs
i'm gonna boost
oh add drugs
when i add drugs it's actually gonna
increase my dopamine activity which will
result in almost like some amount of
self medication
the problem
is that this effect is temporary so over
time when i use drugs at the very
beginning it'll stimulate parts like the
pfc
um it'll and that but it'll also kind of
have some effects on kind of the
amygdala
over here in the hippocampus so like
you'll get stimulation here by drugs
okay
but the problem is that over time is you
use drugs
they stop increasing dopamine over here
and let me know if this is too much okay
and
what actually happens is they start to
like affect this part of our brain
called the striatum so drug use when i
use drugs temporarily it sort of has
effects let's say over here
and over here
but over time it'll start to activate a
different part of my brain called the
striatum and then what happens once it
starts acting in the striatum what it
actually does is decrease dopamine
so then when i increase my drug use it
actually has a paradoxical effect to
decrease dopamine and then makes the
adhd worse
this has to do with the way that our
brain actually like acclimatizes to drug
drug use so um just to kind of recap and
apologies if i'm saying this over and
over again so in the beginning we have
dopamine deficiency here and not a good
amount of activity in our pfc if i use
certain drugs i can actually boost the
dopamine over here and it creates a
self-medicating effect this will sort of
explain to you why people with adhd may
be vulnerable to substance use because
it's almost self-medicating in some way
then what happens through chronic drug
use is that the parts of my brain that
get affected change and once we get to
the striatum what we actually see is a
decrease in dopamine activity and then
adhd worsens and there's some
interesting evidence for this
so if you look at the d2 receptor so i
don't know if you guys kind of know this
but you know like
um
so if i have a molecule of dopamine
the number of receptors i have will kind
of increase the signal so if i have like
three receptors in one molecule of
dopamine and this molecule of dopamine
is kind of floating around
it has a very high chance of like
increasing the dopamine signal i can
also increase the dopamine signal by
increasing the molecules of dopamine
right because then i can go over here i
can go over here i can go over here
so what we actually see
in people who are abstinent i know this
is going to sound kind of weird
but what we see in people who are
abstinent is a lower number of dopamine
receptors and so if you have a lower
number of dopamine receptors shouldn't
that mean that you will get
less dopaminergic activity and the
answer paradoxically is no because the
reason you have a lower number of
receptors
is because you're not bombarding
yourself with dopamine
so over time what happens i know this
sounds kind of weird
but over time what happens is we develop
tolerance
and so as we develop tolerance it can
kind of make some weird changes to our
dopamine receptor circuitry and actually
like
alter our sensitivity to dopamine so
when people actually become abstinent
it's the reason that their dopamine
receptors kind of go down is actually
results in them not being bombar or
sorry i just got confused there um
but as as you sort of decrease the
number of dopamine receptors within
abstinence it sort of signals a
resetting of your dopamine system
the other thing that we sort of
uh seem to understand is that dopamine
blockade
in this part of your black brain if you
block dopamine
it reduces
adhd symptoms
and reduces substance use
symptoms so this is what's kind of
interesting here is that like once we
move from this part of our brain to this
part of our brain
we start to like alter our dopamine
metabolism in some way that's honestly
like pretty complicated and and is hard
to follow but the end result is that
once we're acting from the striatum we
we see increased negative increased
impacts of dopamine and adhd symptoms
worsen okay that's kind of the key
takeaway
and i apologize if i confused you all
there for a few seconds
the key takeaway here though is that if
we look at the different regions of our
our brain
what we can sort of start to see is
first of all
why dopamine increase originally helps
people with adhd and as our brain adapts
and we start to see dopaminergic changes
over here we'll see an increa a
decreased dopamine response and adhd
actually worsening over time and so this
is and then what happens with this this
person once we have like striatal
activity of substance use in substance
use or prolonged substance use is that
not only they kind of addicted to the
substance but the adhd actually gets
worse okay
so
next thing
med school ptsd
so next thing to kind of explore is like
let's talk a little bit about the
mechanisms of adhd
okay
and um
let's talk about some of the mechanisms
of adhd and understand why people with
adhd are prone to substance use so we
reviewed a little bit of the
neuroscience but the first reason that
people do it is to self-medicate
right and this is essentially what i was
explaining earlier which is that people
are dopamine deficient in adhd
this may be part of the reason why
they're sensitive to rewards
and so as we increase dopamine
through substances
for some amount of time it may actually
improve the adhd
and this is also why we'll use you know
stimulants which can be substances of
abuse
to treat adhd
so it kind of makes sense okay so the
first reason is self-medication
the second reason is a little bit
psychological
okay so this isn't something that we
really understand the neuroscience well
uh very well but this is something i've
observed as a clinician
and we'll talk about this maybe in a
future lecture so adhd is associated
with a lot of shame
okay so this is what happens in people
with adhd
like you're smart you know you're smart
you look around and there are other
people
that are able to do normal things people
that are stupider than you are that are
able to do normal things and you can't
do those things despite your iq you
can't do those things despite all of
your potential you can't do those things
despite being in gifted and talented
classes when you were in the third grade
you can't seem to focus your mind and
pass a single exam in high school
so what happens in adhd is people don't
understand that they've got adhd so what
what happens is that they just feel like
they're busted in some way and they feel
like they suck at life
they don't really understand because the
other problem that we see in adhd is
oftentimes people have high iqs and they
develop compensatory mechanisms
so what that means is that despite your
adhd
you you basically use like
some kind of weird iq compensation
to
make it so that you can function
semi-normally but this iq compensation
it's sort of like i have a flat tire but
i'm so strong that i can just push the
car
which like allows you to go 15 miles an
hour when everyone else is going like
super slow so you're like doing exerting
a ton of effort to ultimately get
something
that's kind of normal despite a very
heavy handicap and over time these
compensatory mechanisms no longer work
and so you used to be able to do what
other people could do and despite your
high iq now you suddenly suck at life
which deals which results in a bunch of
shame and the more shame you have
the more you need coping mechanisms
and then generally speaking because your
brain is remember
sensitive
to reward
because you've got an adhd brain the
kinds of coping mechanisms you end up
with are maladaptive ones
so it's hard for you to sit there and
meditate if you've got adhd so instead
what you're going to turn to is drugs
and video games
and social
media right because you're so ashamed of
yourself
so this is kind of the second place
where drug use comes in where generally
speaking what i
what drugs do i kind of think about them
like clinically
as an escape
and so adhd gives people's minds things
to escape from
right because in my mind like i'm an
idiot like i should be able to do it but
i can't do it so i need to run away from
that so i get prone to drugs
and so the third thing uh which i'm sort
of separating out even though it's kind
of you know maybe under self-medication
is that i do think that there's a neuro
vulnerability here which is important
so like i've kind of outlined
there are a lot of things about the
brains of people with adhd that are a
little bit different their sensitivity
to reward their inability
to inhibit impulses
and so what this kind of results in is
um
you know like a vulnerability to
substance use
so vulnerability to substance use
disorders so if we kind of look at like
you know why these things correlate
there's definitely like this
self-medication kind of hypothesis
there's a psychological component and
basically like your brain has substance
use if we kind of think about it in
video game terms you know like you've
got fire resist and ice resistant
lightning resist and like substance use
disorder or addiction resist for adhd
people is like minus 50
so you're kind of born with this
inherent trait of like having minus 50
addiction resist
and so this is why people with substance
use disorders and
people with adhd while like half of them
have substance use disorders so then the
natural question is okay okay dr k what
do we do about it
okay
so now i think i can just kind of say
this to y'all so this is going to be
tricky so this is going to be one of the
parts
of
when we talk on stream where i'm going
to say
particular things and they're going to
be hard to implement but i'm still gonna
go ahead and do this okay
so a lot of times here on stream what we
try to do is give you guys easily
accessible solutions that like you can
do it in five minutes or ten minutes
this is one of the cases where actually
what i really want to do is not give you
all an easily accessible solution but a
plan of attack that unfortunately is
quite difficult
the first thing that you've got to do is
stop separating out substance use from
adhd and this is really important
so a lot of people that i work with who
have adhd will say oh dr k
i have
you know like i have trouble with
motivation right like i'm so adhd like i
have trouble in school i have trouble in
motivation with motivation how do i get
motivated how do i find out what i want
to do in my life
and they mentally separate out the fact
that they smoke pot every day from like
these problems
they're like oh no i'm lazy it's not
like the pot like i'm lazy it's not the
alcohol it's not the video games they're
not a causative factor
they aren't the reason i'm lazy they are
the result of my laziness
right so it's kind of interesting but if
you have a motivational problem if you
have adhd and you use any kind of
substance
okay marijuana alcohol stimulants even
video games
you have to understand that as long as
you're using that substance all of this
cycle is going to be going on in your
brain and you're really not
helping your brain to achieve motivation
so anytime you have a comorbid disorder
so this gets into the idea of dual
diagnosis so when you've got depression
and alcohol addiction
you can't deal with either of them
on their own because if you've got
depression and you're depressed
it's going to make it far easier for you
to reach for like booze
and if you drink all the time your brain
is going to be more prone to depression
so like you can't separate out these
problems anymore so like this is it's
kind of harsh but like
i i've heard so many people who will say
oh my problem is motivation laziness or
adhd or it's this but it's certainly not
the pot
like
that's fine like haven't you read all
the research like pot doesn't make you
stupid or pot doesn't cause this it's
fine like it's being legalized it's like
safe like i like it i enjoy it it's good
and i hate to break it to you but if
you're using any kind of substance and
you have problems with adhd those two
things are going to be
the substance is going to be
contributing to the problem like 100
so first thing you've got to do is stop
separating out the substance use from
all of your other problems your problems
are not going to get fixed as long as
you're using substances
okay maybe a little bit of a hyperbole
there like
but
honestly it's been my experience as a
clinician that like you've got to take
the substance you seriously
so what that practically means is you
got to get sober so if you really want
to fix this you have to start by getting
sober and i know that that's not easy
and has its own
own you know challenges but the simple
truth is that if you're using substances
and you've got adhd and you think the
problem is adhd you got to get sober
the second thing is that you have to
deal with the shame of adhd right so
this is a psychological thing getting
sober is more about neuroscience right
so it's about resetting your dopamine
and stuff like that but you got to deal
with the shame of adhd so this is where
getting into therapy is a very good idea
so oftentimes
when i stream i will talk about how
coaching is fantastic and you should
sign up for coaching for reasons a b and
c this is one of the cases where i'm
seriously going to say if you have a
substance use disorder and you have adhd
don't sign up to see a healthy gamer
coach go see an actual dual diagnosis
clinician go to someone who can help you
with adhd and substance use
because you've got to like do the
therapy right you've got to deal with
that shame which causes you to reach for
the substance of abuse
the third thing that you've got to do is
do a dopamine detox
so this is going to be very hard for
someone with adhd because remember that
your propensity for boredom is going to
be like your tolerance of boredom is
going to be super low
um but the unfortunate thing is that
you're kind of handicapped you're stuck
because if you're using the substance
and you have the paradoxical effect of
dopamine in the striatum which is that
over time you're decreasing your
dopamine usage and remember that low
levels of dopamine are correlated with
adhd which means that your substance use
is literally making your adhd worse
so you've gotta not only get sober but
do a dopamine detox
and give your chance and give yourself a
chance to reset whatever that dopamine
circuitry is
uh so that you can start to like respond
in kind of healthier ways okay
and then the fourth thing that you've
got to do is
meditate so i know we talk a lot about
meditation on stream we say it's like
really good for all kinds of stuff
the the reason i include it here is
because everything that we're all of the
solutions to this are basically removing
bad things right it's like getting sober
going to therapy
doing a dopamine detox it's all removal
of stuff it's all restriction of stuff
so the one thing that you can really do
to like add it's something that you can
actively do it's not getting rid of
something is meditate and there's oh
good evidence overwhelming evidence i
would say that meditation strengthens
your frontal lobes right so that's where
we go back to the idea of the prefrontal
cortex
um it strengthens things like your
ability to control impulsivity it
strengthens your capacity to inhibit
things
uh like inhibit impulses
and then the fifth thing to do is to
recognize that your environment
that you are prone to particular
weaknesses based on your environment so
you must very carefully control your
environment
so let's remember what are the three
vulnerabilities for people with adhd and
substance use
um
decrease so you're more impulsive right
and you can't control your it's
difficult to inhibit behaviors
so if you are in a situation where there
are going to be
notifications and things pulling at your
attention your attention is going to use
any excuse it can to not study so if you
give it any kind of excuse to not study
it will get distracted as easily as
possible so what i say very practically
for people is think for a second
about all of the things that could
distract you from studying so
notifications on your phone access to
reddit
you know being able to alt tab
using a laptop even right so using a
computer or using your phone for school
work because all of those things are
going to make it easy for you to get
distracted so if you want to be
effective what you really have to do is
control your environment because
remember that you have like a high level
of distractibility right
so you have like your impulsivity
resistance is also minus 50
so if you are in an environment where
you're being exposed to impulsive
distractions
you're much more likely to get
distracted
the other thing to remember is that your
your reward sensitivity is also kind of
messed up
so if you
look at twitter if you not only are you
more prone to open up twitter but you
are once you open up twitter compared to
the neurotypical brain you are much more
likely to enjoy twitter than another
person which means that for a normal
person who gets distracted they may
spend 15 minutes on twitter and their
mind will once again restrain itself and
go back to the studying but for someone
with adhd that 15 minutes is gonna be
two hours
because the dopaminergic response that
you get the the sensitivity to reward
that you have you're actually far more
sensitive to reward so all of these
things like social media and twitter and
video games are actually going to pull
your brain in even more than the
neurotypical person
so it's really hard like i'm not saying
that any of this stuff is easy but you
must control your environment and as as
like as
like strongly as you can as rigidly as
you can as you strict as strictly as you
can think about all of the impulsive
sources of distraction you may have and
recognize that if any one of those
things happens there's a decent chance
you're screwed because if you get
distracted and you do something that's
dopaminergic and rewarding your brain is
literally going to love that reward so
much even if you don't personally like
enjoy it or you think it's fun
the ability for your brain to engage in
that behavior for two hours is actually
way higher so you've got to be like far
far more careful it's like you're
walking a tightrope with your attention
and any kind of gusts of wind can blow
you off course
okay
so just to kind of summarize it is
unfortunate that people with adhd are
very prone to substance use disorders
i'm not surprised at all that half of
people with adhd end up having a
substance use disorder as it turns out
if we look at what adhd is it sort of is
composed of three things as it relates
to substance use disorders it's more
than that for example so we talked about
emotional dysregulation and things like
that
but there are three kind of major
mechanisms that we're thinking about one
is increased sensitivity reward so the
brains of people with adhd are more
likely to enjoy enjoyable things okay
so that's what makes it easy to love
drugs right because someone else can get
just a regular amount of high or a
regular amount of drunk but boy is it
super awesome when you get high and when
you get drunk
the second thing is that people with
adhd are more impulsive so if we look at
drug use like impulsivity correlates
with an increased amount of drug use
there was even one study that i looked
at that like people with adhd are more
likely to engage with in harmful
high-risk drug-associated behaviors like
people with adhd are more likely to
drive while intoxicated than people
without adhd
the third thing with that adhd does is
prevents you from inhibiting your im
prevents inhibition so in our brains
like i may want to do something but then
like i feel like doing something else
and then my frontal lobes will inhibit
that part of my brain
that will inhibit that impulse so that i
can stay focused on task
so the combination of being able to
of dysregulated inhibition
of impulsivity
and sensitivity to reward really make it
easy to fall into drugs
a quick summary of the neuroscience and
this is there's this kind of a couple of
key takeaways here so the first is that
people with adhd have
some kind of problem with their dopamine
circuitry and that low levels of
dopamine are
correlated with high adhd symptoms
what that means is that when you use
drugs originally it'll actually increase
your dopamine and i suspect that a lot
of the people a lot of the reasons that
people with adhd use drugs is because it
actually offers some element of
self-medication
the problem is that if we look at
chronic drug use originally drugs
activate dopamine levels in the
prefrontal cortex and other parts like
our mesolimbic system and via the
nucleus accumbens this is called the
mesolimbic pathway i didn't really get
into it but over time when we use
substances our brain adapts and it
affects the levels of dopamine in other
parts of our brain so we start to see a
shift from those circuits to the
striatum and once you're into the
striatum we actually see a drop in
dopamine with drug use and with that
drop of dopamine with drug use we see
worsening of adhd symptoms
so people get into it originally out of
self-medication but then it ends up
self-sabotaging
the second thing the second reason that
people with adhd reach for drugs in my
clinical experience is because of the
high amount of shame and like i suck at
life because i have adhd very common and
unfortunate experience and then there's
another set of you know neuro
vulnerabilities that we've kind of
talked about that sort of make you prone
to
substance use so the end result of this
is that like you you end up getting like
50 vulnerability to substance use if you
have adhd
so the question becomes what do we do
about it and unfortunately this is where
there are a lot of important things to
do and none of them are easy and none of
them are simple at the top of the list
is get sober i'm sorry but you can't
convince yourself anymore
that drugs are like an acceptable thing
to do if you've got adhd if you have
adhd that is not well controlled and
it's negatively impacting your life
honestly the first thing to do is to get
sober
second thing to do is ideally work with
a dual diagnosis clinician
who can do therapy to help you work
through shame as well as like do cbt
around adhd and stuff like that and can
help you like
get into the process of recovery
third thing that you can do is a
dopamine detox so this is going to be
really tough for people with adhd
because dopamine detox the primary
problem is essentially boredom we have a
video about dopamine detox that you all
can check out
um
but dopamine detoxes are going to help
you reset your dopamine levels hopefully
adjust that that d2 receptor level in
the striatum and once that reset happens
hopefully the adhd will get better as
well and like that sensitivity to reward
stuff will sort of get normalized some
and then the last thing uh the
uh that was third thing right so fourth
thing to do is to meditate so meditation
has been shown to strengthen the frontal
lobes improve things like impulsivity
improve things like your ability to
inhibit info inhibit distractions and
focus your attention
and then the fifth thing to do is
control your environment so this is
crucial because you do have impulsivity
vulnerabilities you do have distraction
vulnerabilities so if your environment
is like a normal environment other
people may be able to not get that
distracted or if they do get distracted
they'll spend 15 minutes on reddit
before they go back to studying
whereas your sensitivity to reward
is so like out of whack that if you
start on twitter your brain is gonna
love it so much that you'll lose two
hours before you realize it so you must
must must be very very strict about your
environment if you were trying to do
work
so i hope that's been helpful for y'all
i think unfortunately adhd and substance
use are two of the most challenging
conditions
to try to build a healthy life with
it's so hard because so much of our
society is like
how can i say this so much of our
society preys on the vulnerabilities
that the adhd brain has and as
technology is getting more robust as you
know these mega companies and video game
developers are like paying people
millions and billions of dollars to
figure out how to engage your attention
and increase user engagement it's just
preying on the adhd brain even more and
more and more so it's really unfortunate
that it's honestly like quite an uphill
battle
but
i don't know how to simplify it i mean i
think our goal here at healthy gamer is
to help y'all with this stuff
and helping you all with this stuff
starts with like an honest assessment of
like where we are right if you want to
overcome cancer
sticking your head in the sand is not
how you do it it involves surveillance
it involves diagnosis it involves
prognostication it involves
understanding what's the hill that we
have to climb and even if it's a super
high hill we have to really acknowledge
that and understand like what we're
getting ourselves into because that's
going to be ultimately how we come up
with the best sort of plan
you